Hello and welcome back in this video let's look at the str method.
And the reason why we're making a video just for this specific method or command the same thing is because
it's so important for you to not make this mistake in your programs.
It is a mistake that happens very often.
It's very common mistake.
And in this video we're quickly going to learn exactly how to avoid it and something you have to remember
and when you're making your programs.
So in the last video we try to add our age to the number of two blistering years and that we want to
be to give us five years.
However what it gave us was an era which is not ideal.
That is because we were trying to add an integer a whole number and a string.
And Python does not know what to do when we try to add those two distinct types together.
So what to do is treat the number as a string.
Convert it to a string where we can do that is for example by making another variable.
I'm going to create a variable called Age underscore string.
And this is going to be equal to SDR which is the name of a method.
Notice how it goes purple an inside SDR.
We're going to put our age variable which is the number five and where this is going to do is is going
to convert essentially the number to a string and it's going to put it inside this variable.
Notice that our variable age is still the number 5.
OK so now we've made a variable that contains the string defined essentially version of age.
And now we can do age underscore string plus years.
And this is joining one string with another.
And you know what is going to happen when we do this.
We saw this in the second video.
And what is going to happen is that it's going to join them together and give us five years.
However you have to create an entirely new variable which is essentially the same as the age only it's
with the quotation marks around it.
So there's an easier way there's a slightly more concise way of doing this.
The value we're assigning to each string is essed your age which means that SDR age is this five here
.
And then we're just putting it inside our very.
But we don't have to put it inside our variable.
We can simply say SDR age plus years and that is going to convert age to a string and then adds that
two years and give us the same value so we can completely circumvent the creation of a new variable
.
And that's good.
It makes this slightly more readable and it means that we don't have to create a new variable for this
simple purpose.
So in this video we've looked at the str method and you can use the SDR method not only with integers
but also with a wide array of other data types and in the next video we're going to be looking at how
we can create a program in a file and run it from the python shell as opposed to running it statement
by statement.
So bear with me and I'll see you in the next video